# Pseudo Random Generators (PRG)

## 1. Introduction

A pseudo random generator (PRG) is a deterministic algorithm that takes a short random seed and expands it into a longer pseudo random string. The output of a PRG is indistinguishable from a truly random string by any efficient adversary.

## 2. Types of PRG

There are numerous types of PRG and a lot of research has been done in this area. Here, we have a look at some of the most common types of PRG.

- [x] [Linear Congruential Generator](lcg/README.md)
- [ ] Blum Blum Shub
- [ ] Linear Feedback Shift Register
- [ ] Mersenne Twister
- [x] [Xorshift](xorshift/README.md)

## 3. Why PRG?

By it's very definition, PRG doesn't seem like the best thing to use. Why would you want to use a pseudo random string when you can use a truly random string? The answer is simple: **Efficiency**.

Generating truly random strings is a very expensive process. It requires a lot of resources and time. On the other hand, PRG is a very efficient process. It requires very little resources and time. This is why PRG is used in almost all modern day cryptography.

Any modern age computer can perform PRG in a matter of milliseconds. This is why most programming languages have a built-in function for PRG. However, it is just not possible to generate truly random strings in such a short time.

## 4. PRG in Cryptography

PRG is **not** used in cryptography to generate keys. It is used to generate **keystreams**. A keystream is a stream of bits that is used to encrypt a message. The keystream is generated by a PRG using a short random seed. The seed is called the key.

So, to explain it in simple terms, a PRG is used to generate a long pseudo random string from a short random string. The long pseudo random string is called the keystream and the short random string is called the key.

The key is generated by a various methods that are beyond the scope of this research.
Just the knowledge that the key is a short random string is enough for now.
Now, as stated earlier, generating using a PRG is a very efficient process. Hence, you use a secure but slow method to generate a short random string and then use a PRG to generate a long pseudo random string from it.

So, essentially, the impact to the efficiency of the system is negligible. However, the security of the system is greatly increased.
This is brilliant because you get the best of both worlds.
